If you're just getting started with
Google Ads, there are three questions
that you're going to have to answer. The
first one is what is the right budget
for you with Google Ads and can you
actually afford it? The second is what's
the right strategy for you based on your
goals and your budget? And the third one
is how can you actually get your first
campaign launched without exploding your
budget in the process and just paying
the dump tax. If you're new to the
channel, I'm Sylvia Perez. I'm the
founder of Ad Conversion. We teach 9,000
plus B2B marketers how to master ads.
And we manage over $3 million a month in
ad spend for top B2B SAS brands. If
you're looking for a basic tutorial that
is just going to walk you through the
campaign manager and how to click
certain buttons without thinking about
it, then this isn't for you. But if
you're looking for a real tutorial
that's going to teach you how to think
about your strategy and your
implementation so you can actually
become a real expert and make decisions
based on first principles, then this is
for you. I'm going to be explaining
everything in this video like if you
were one of my team members inside of
our ad agency and just sharing what we
have found work over millions of dollars
in Google ad spend. Let's talk about
what is the right budget for you and are
you actually fighting a winnable fight
with Google Ads. A lot of times people
feel optimistic about Google Ads and
they're ready to just throw their
budget, but they don't actually realize
if they're fighting a winnable fight or
not. I think ROI is something we all
obsess about and is very important. But
you should also be focusing on ROE,
which is return on effort. And before
embarking on this journey, you need to
figure out if this is actually a journey
that you can reach the destination. And
like we say to our clients, is this a
winnable fight? So throughout this whole
video, I'm going to be using Sammy as my
example. Sammy is our ad automation
platform that optimizes performance
across LinkedIn, Google, and Met Ads.
It's a new SAS we launched about 6
months ago and I'm going to be using
everything I talk about in this video
with Sammy and seeing can I actually do
Google ads on Sammy and what will that
actually look like. So everything I do
for Sammy feel free to just replicate
the same process for yourself whether
that's for a client or your own
business. So the first thing we need to
do is we have to do some preliminary
keyword research and figure out how much
is it going to actually cost us to buy
traffic on Google and does it make sense
for us depending on our average revenue
per user average deal size and our
existing conversion rates. So let me
show you how you can create a worst
moderate and best case scenario starting
point. So what I'm going to be doing is
I'm going to be using our Google Ads
budget calculator tool that we built on
ad conversion. I will go ahead and link
this in the description, but if you want
to find this, you can just go to our
website and just go to the resources
section and then click on Google Ads
calculator and it'll bring you here. And
using this tool, what we're going to do
is we're going to figure out our worst,
moderate, and best case scenario and the
different impacts of our conversion
rates. So, let's just use Sammy as an
example. Sammy is a productled SAS
business. So, we have a free trial
motion and then from there you go and
you become a paid user after
experiencing the product. So for me,
let's say I wanted to get 10 paid users
a quarter. And right now, my conversion
rate from free trial to paid user. Let's
pretend that's 3%. And my average
revenue per sale is $119. So this is my
starting point in terms of the business
goal and my current conversion rates.
Now, what I need to do is I need to
figure out what is my average cost per
click. However, I've never ran any
Google ads for Sammy before, so I'm
starting from zero. I have no data to go
off of. If you've already ran Google Ads
before and you've bought traffic for the
keywords that you're interested in, then
you have an advantage because you don't
have to guess on this step. You can just
go into your Google Ad account, figure
out your average cost per click by
looking inside your ad account, and then
you can apply that here. So, in my case
with Sammy, what I have to do is I need
to come here into Google Ads and I'm
going to navigate to the planning
section, keyword planner, and I'm going
to use the Google Ads keyword planner
tool as a starting point to figure out
what is my average cost per click. A
really cool way to do this is if you
click discover new keywords, you can
start with keywords. So if you already
have keywords in mind that you want to
bid on, you can start here or you can
start with the website. So that's what
I'm going to do. I'm going to grab my
domain here for Sammy and I'm going to
drop that into the keyword planner and
I'm going to use my entire site and I'm
going to click get results. And now what
Google is doing is it's going to scan my
website and it's going to propose
keywords for me based on the context of
my website. So this is a cool way to get
started. So for example, advertising
automation platform. This is exactly
what Sammy is. It's an ad automation
platform for ads. Think Zapier but for
ads. So this is a really awesome keyword
for us. And what I can do and I highly
recommend that you adjust your columns.
If you don't see what I have, adjust
your columns for the the values that you
see in this video. And the first thing I
want to look at is the average monthly
searches. Is there enough search volume
to actually justify not the ROI, the
ROE, the return on effort to actually go
out and build all these campaigns? So, I
can see here for the average monthly
searches for advertising automation
platform, it's about 10 and 100. Not a
lot. In terms of recommendations,
ideally, we're we're working with 1 to
10,000. That's a much healthier volume
to really drive a good amount of volume
from Google Ads. However, if it's super
valuable for your business and you want
to show up for any one of those 100
people that are searching it, then it's
worth doing. One other thing that I
would mention is right now my default
location is set to the United States.
So, it might be 10 to 100 just in the
United States and then much more
worldwide. So, feel free to adjust your
location settings depending on where
you're advertising. So using the example
advertising automation platform, what
I'm going to do now that I understand
the average monthly searches is I'm
going to look here at the top of page
bid high range. And this is basically
Google's estimate of how much you need
to spend on the highend in order to show
up on the top three spots. I will tell
you in my experience running Google ads
for multiple years, this estimate has
never been correct and this estimate is
always wrong. So, as a as a general
safety net, what I like to do is I like
to just look at the high high bid just
to be safe. And then I'll take the high
bid and I'll add about 20% on top of it
just as a margin of error. If I have no
data to go off of, I've never ran these
campaigns before and bid on these
keywords before. If I had that data, of
course, just go into your Google ad
account and pull your average. But I'm
going to use this as a starting point.
So looking at this, it's going to cost
me $69 a click in order to buy traffic
for this keyword. I can tell you right
now that's not happening. I already know
this is not a winnable fight by just
taking five minutes and doing this
exercise I'm walking you through. And I
can't tell you how many people spend
months and years of stress and trial and
wasted budget because they don't spend
five minutes doing this exercise I'm
walking you through right now. So you're
welcome. I hope it saves you a lot of
stress and money because it it
definitely I wish somebody showed me
this. So you can see here $69 a click
for context our average revenue per user
is $119. Now granted that is on the
front end we have a stronger lifetime
value so we can offset the cost of this
over the lifetime of the customer but
right now that where we're starting as a
new business I'm not going to spend $69
a click profitably. It's just not going
to happen. I don't have a strong enough
conversion rate in terms of trial to
paid user yet to offset that cost. So, I
already know there's no way that I'm
going to make this happen. But just to
show you and like illustrate this, I'm
going to go ahead and grab this cost per
click. And now I'm going to come back to
the Google Ads calculator. And here
under average cost per click, I'm going
to drop in that CPC value. And now I'm
going to scroll down here. And for
worst, moderate, and best case, this is
where I can adjust my form conversion
rates for. So your form conversion rate,
this is your landing page conversion
rate. So in the case of Sammy, someone
first must sign up for a free trial and
then once they sign up for a free trial,
they then have to become a paid user. So
I'm basically saying of the people who
sign up for a free trial, about 3% of
them actually convert to a paid user. If
you're salesled for you, instead of it
being your paid conversion rate, it
would be your sales conversion rate,
right? So for context, maybe that's 30%.
You would adjust that win rate. And here
this is my this is my landing page
conversion rate. So worst case if I had
a 5% landing page conversion rate
meaning of all the people were hitting
my trial page 5% of them convert. This
would be the daily budget and the
monthly budget that I need in order to
get 10 paid users at this conversion
rate and a 3% win rate. $154,000
a month. That is just not happening.
Right? And and this is assuming a 5%
trial conversion rate, right? And this
is where you can modify these values to
really see what is it going to take. So
for example, if you're like most B2B
businesses, you don't have 5%, you have
1%, which is terrible, by the way, and
you should definitely get to work on
improving that. But imagine like if I
have 1%, it goes from a monthly budget
of 154 to 770,000.
If I bump that up to 5%, now we're at
154. I bump this up to 10%, now we're at
77. I bump this up to 20%, now we're at
38K a month. This should really
highlight to you how important your
conversion rates are for your Google ad
success and really all of your ad
success. But I find this tool to be
really helpful to just frame
expectations with new clients of here is
what a winnable fight will entail. So
just coming back to an example, let's
pretend I have 3%, I've got 10%, and
then on the best case I've got 20% for
my conversion rates. You're going to see
here for an average cost per click of
$69, I would need a monthly budget of
$256,000,
$77,000, and $38,000. And at my current
average revenue per sale, like the ROAZ
just isn't there to really make it
worthwhile. So, I know it's not
happening, right? I can already save
myself a lot of stress and headaches by
just doing this process. So, now what
I'm going to do is I'm going to
basically figure out, is there an actual
opportunity, right? Okay, obviously I
can make it happen with this type of
campaign, with this type of keyword, but
are there other ones? So, what I would
do is I would look through the list and
I would see is there anything else that
is relevant enough that I would want to
see if it can make sense. So, for
example, like let's look at this one um
automation ads or maybe actually let's
do let's do something a bit more
specific. So, there's a keyword that
comes to my mind right now and it is
LinkedIn ads automation.
So, I'm going to search that up and
let's see. Okay, there's no volume. So,
I'm not getting a lot of confidence that
Google Ads is going to be a good channel
for us for Sammy. And one thing I will
mention in my experience with Google Ads
is you want to reach the Google Ads
sweet spot. So, that basically means
number one, you're operating an existing
category. So, in our case, we're
operating in the world of ad automation.
Ad automation is not an existing
category. I mean, it is an existing
category, but it's not something that's
popular yet in the sense of mainstream
and it's what everyone's doing. A good
example of this is if you were bidding
on the keyword, you know, like LLM or AI
or, you know, something around basically
what chat GPT made popular, right? Chat
GPT made LLMs popular. If you were
bidding on the keyword LLM before chat
GPT, you wouldn't get enough volume,
right? But now in a pre or a post chatbt
world, there's a lot of volume for those
types of keywords. So if you're not
operating in an existing category that's
more mainstream, search generally as a
channel is not going to be as strong for
you. The same is true of like the more
niche your focus, the more enterprise or
market you go, the the more painful
search will be in terms of trying to
make a strong enough return on your
effort outside of just return on
investment. Doesn't mean there's not
opportunity to be had. just means that
you're going to have to be a bit more
creative, which I'll talk about more in
this video around when we get into the
strategy portion of this. So, go ahead
and look up your keywords and start to
put together a list of dream keywords
for you that you think makes sense based
on your website, based on what you're
going after, and start to compile that
list together so that you can actually
follow along and move on to the next
step. Okay. Now that you understand the
right budget for you and if you're
fighting a witable fight with Google
Ads, let's talk about what is the right
strategy for you based on your goals and
your budget. In my experience running
Google ad campaigns, there are specific
keyword strategies and campaigns that we
go back to again and again for our
clients. And I'm going to walk you
through those campaigns right here. The
first one is non-brand. So non-brand is
the bread and butter for paid search.
We're talking about Google ads in this
video, but everything I'm talking about
also applies to Bing Ads. So if you're
interested in that, that's also an
opportunity. And this is really bidding
on generic highintent solution related
keywords or as other people like to call
them your money keywords. So in my case
with Sammy, a money keyword for us is
somebody searching LinkedIn ads
automation or ad automation platform.
But as you can see in the research we
did, it's going to cost me $69 a click
and the volume is low on the front end.
I'm better off using that budget on paid
social where I can get in front of
people much earlier so that I can
educate them, make them aware of the
power of automation, build interest,
right, and then drive them into my
product. So non-brand for you, that
might be something like if you're a SAS
business, it'll be like your keyword
plus platform or solution or tools. So
for example, CRM platform, CRM solution,
CRM tools are all examples of non-brand
keywords. The next one is competitive.
So, competitive keywords are where
you're bidding on your competitors and
you're basically just bidding on their
brand name and you're trying to show up
and tap into their existing awareness
and steal customers from them
transparently. And this could be a
really great play for you if you're
going up against known competitors in
the space or even more importantly,
these competitors are attracting the
kind of customers that you want. So, for
example, with me and Sammy, we know that
non-brand keywords isn't very hot for
me, right? Like the opportunity isn't
there. The cost is way too high, the
volume is way too low, and just for
where I am right now in terms of the
business, I can't make that work.
However, maybe Sammy has certain
competitors where I can bid on those
competitors names and that could be a
much better play for me. Maybe there's
more volume, there's a better cost per
click, especially if these competitors
are known, but they're not that known in
terms of like competitors bidding on
them, right? They're not that expensive.
There could be an opportunity there, and
I could focus my efforts in that case.
If you're watching this and you're going
after enterprise deals or very niche
types of clients, non-brand might not
work as well for you, but competitive
could work better because if somebody is
searching for your competitor's name, it
speaks to the person behind the search
in much more detail, right? where if
you're searching for that competitor, it
probably already assumes that you've
been educated on the problems that they
solve. You're a specific kind of person,
right? Cuz not just anybody is going to
search for your competitor. And what
this looks like in terms of keywords, it
could be competitor name alternatives,
cancel competitor name, competitor name
versus your name, right? So, for
example, Salesforce alternatives, cancel
Salesforce subscription, uh Salesforce
versus HubSpot, right? These are all
examples in a SAS context of what
competitive would look like. The third
type of campaign you could run is a
brand campaign. So, this is essentially
where you're bidding on your own brand
name to protect yourself against
competitors bidding on yours. This is
the exact opposite of competitive
campaigns. Competitive campaign is the
representation of offense. Brand
campaign is a representation of defense.
So, this is where you're literally
bidding on your own name. So, your name,
your name reviews, your name versus
competitor name, these types of
keywords. So that if your competitors
are trying to run that play against you,
you can try to protect against that. One
thing I'll mention about brand is you
don't want to put the majority of your
budget on this play. Again, this is
defense. We really want to spend the
majority of our budget going after new
customers. And it's a really easy trap
that we find, especially with larger
accounts, is they spend way too much
money on branded search, especially
because they see so much direct
attribution from branded search
campaigns. the cost per trial is lower
or the cost per demo is lower compared
to non-brand campaigns. But I would
argue that they're not the same value
for your business. I will say though,
there are exceptions. There's one brand
in specific where we had a client that
was spending like 40% of their search
budget on brand and we ran an
incrementality test to basically prove
or disprove if they were getting new
users from branded search. And in their
case, they were. So, there are
exceptions to this rule, but generally
speaking, you don't want to spend the
majority of your budget on brand. You
want to focus on non-brand and some of
the other themes that we're going to
talk about. The fourth strategy you can
leverage is RLSA or remarketing list for
search ads. This is essentially where
you're bidding on keywords that only
appear if somebody has already been to
your website beforehand. And this is
essentially search remarketing. So, now
you're taking those same non-brand
keywords. So in my case with Sammy, I'm
taking that advertising automation
platform keyword that cost me $69 a
click and now what I'm doing is I'm
saying, "Okay, Google, I will bid on
this super expensive keyword, but only
if the person has already been to my
website in the last 90 days." So now I'm
willing to pay that premium cost per
click, not just for anybody, but for a
specific type of person that has already
engaged with me in the past. This is a
really great strategy when you have
enough search volume. If you're like me
in the Sammy example and you're a new
startup and you don't have a lot of
volume right now, you're still building
your brand awareness, this probably
won't work very well for you because you
just don't have the audience size in
order to make this work. And remember,
you have two things going against you.
You have the audience size in this case,
and then you also have the search volume
for the keyword. So, I still only have,
you know, one to 100 people searching
that keyword I showed you a month, plus
I only have the size of my audience. So
you have two things going against you.
So if you are going to do RLSA, it makes
sense to use RLSA much more loosely. So
meaning go after more competitive or I
should say more competitive, higher
volume keywords. So this is where I
might even get a little bit more content
related or less intentoriented. So for
example, I would only be willing to bid
on advertising automation platform
because it's super high intent and if
somebody searches it, they're a perfect
person. But in an LSA example, maybe I
would just bid on the keyword ad
automation, which is much broader and
can mean many more things. But if
somebody has been to my website and
they're searching anything around the
category of ad automation, I want to
make sure I show up. So again, this is
where you can start to think and that's
why I'm really hoping to push in this
video that you guys can take away from
this because I've seen the videos out
there on YouTube and like not to throw
shade, but nobody's teaching us how to
think. And when I started learning how
to run Google ads with my own money in
college as a broke college student
trying to get leads for my DJ business,
I remember watching videos and being
like, okay, you know, just doing things
and not really understanding why I'm
doing the things that I'm doing. So,
this is another strategy you could
potentially deploy. And again, depending
on your trade-offs, your circumstances,
you can decide if this makes sense for
you. The fifth strategy is dynamic
search ads. This is essentially where
you let Google automatically create ads
and bid on keywords based on the context
of your website. I personally would not
recommend this strategy if you're just
getting started. This is definitely a
more advanced strategy and we usually
use dynamic search ads to just find new
opportunities in terms of keywords and
search terms that we haven't considered.
So, if you don't have non-brand already
in place, competitive already in place,
I wouldn't touch DSA yet, but it is
worth showing, especially if you're a
more advanced advertiser and you want to
just take your content to the next level
and try to see if there's more
opportunities that you haven't taken
advantage of yet. The sixth type of
strategy you could run for Google Ads is
industry campaigns. So, industry
campaigns are where you're bidding on
high intent industry related keywords.
This is typically far less volume and
it's extremely high quality. So for
example, it's usually like keyword plus
platform for industry is like one
example of a query string. So for
instance with Sammy, it might be ad
automation for e-commerce or ad
automation for SAS. That's an example of
an industry keyword where I'm basically
taking the industry word and I'm
appending it to my non-brand keyword. So
for you, you know, you might, for
example, with CRM, maybe it's CRM
platform for small business or CRM
platform for enterprise. Those are
different examples of industry related
keywords. So you can also bid on this.
Again, the volume is not going to be as
high, but it could be great brand
awareness for you. And if somebody does
search that thing, you do want to make
sure you show up. And I will say one
thing, if you're doing keyword research
and the keywords that you're searching
for don't have enough search volume or
even have estimates in the Google Ads
keyword planner and you're like,
"Sylvia, what do I do? That doesn't say
anything." Just launch the campaign.
Once you launch the campaign, look at
your keywords and Google will flag what
the top of page bid needs to be in order
to show up. So, if you don't have any
data and there are no estimates, just
launch, see what get a click or two and
then go from there. The seventh strategy
that you can leverage for Google ads are
content campaigns. So this is where
you're bidding on relevant educational
related keywords in order to reach
quality prospects earlier on. So think
moreformational queries. So for example,
how to do keyword or when should you
invest in keywords. So for example, how
to do ad automation or when should you
invest in ad automation in a Sammy
context. I actually want to show you
guys something here really quickly
because just to really prove the power
of this play. If you're in a world like
I am with Sammy where non-brand is just
too expensive, I don't have the budget.
Let me show you an alternative. So maybe
I would run a content campaign. So if I
just search ad automation, let's see
what that looks like. So ad automation
has between 100 and a,000. $36 top of
page bid. Still a bit too expensive for
me. So let's try to get a little bit
more niche. Right? So you can if you
make the keyword more longtail, it will
usually drop the price because there's
less competitors bidding on that
longtail variation. So in this case,
I've got LinkedIn ad automation, which
is extremely on point for me, but
there's no estimates. So in this case,
what I would do is I would just launch
the campaign, get a few clicks, and then
now have a baseline to reference and
kind of use that for my forecasting
moving forward. Or maybe let's do
something more informational. So, a good
way to think about figuring out the
keywords here too is if my exact keyword
doesn't have opportunity, can you go to
the next existing category or the next
existing frame of awareness? And I'm
going to make this make sense in a
second that you can tap into that your
person would be looking at. So think of
it as like adjacent buckets of
understanding or topics that you can tap
into that if they search that it's still
relevant to what you offer and maybe you
can get a discount. So this is all again
part of the the strategy piece. So for
example, there's not a lot of people
searching ad automation right now from
what I can see in my estimates. But a
feature that has been around for a long
time that speaks to ad automation that
people might be searching is automated
rules. So, if I search automated rules,
let's see if what's going on there.
Okay, look at this. Automated rules.
Still about 100. Now, now the volume
picked up. Instead of being 0 to 100,
now we've got a h1 to a,000 average
monthly searches. Okay, return on effort
is looking much better here. And then,
not only that, we've got $21 a click
compared to that $69 a click. And
imagine Google Ads automated rules or
LinkedIn ads automated rules. Meta
automated rules, Facebook automated
rules. This automated rules campaign
could be an alternate for me, right? So,
for example, maybe I would run a content
campaign on automated rules and I could
pay a $21 cost per click here instead of
a $50 cost per click. And for the
content campaign as well, remember
you're trying to show up in front of
people who are not solution ready,
right? They're not ready to buy
something, but they are trying to learn.
So, what I could do in this case with
automated rules is I could I could
create like a master article, right?
Think of it as like a really great blog
post on automated rules. And because
Sammy happens to do automated rules, but
just way better, I can plug Sammy into
the article. So, I will educate people
on automated rules, but then I'll
redirect them to the thing that I want,
which is, hey, you should probably try
Sammy if you want admission. So, then
this goes back to strategy. And I hope
the light bulbs are firing in your
guys's mind so you can start to think
about this stuff as a strategist, right?
And not just be like a cog in a machine
just doing what everyone says blindly.
Okay, a few closing points. If you are
just starting off, my general
recommendation is start off with
non-brand and if you're very niche, then
focus on competitive or potentially even
industry campaigns to get your first
wins and then you can start to scale
your account from there with more types
of keyword strategies and different
themes to go after. Just wanted to take
a quick second and say if you're loving
this video, then you're going to
absolutely love our free courses here at
adconversion.com.
We've got free courses on Google Ads.
So, if you want to go deeper on Google
Ads, I actually created three courses on
Google Ads. 101, 102, and 103. 101 is
perfect for beginners that need to
launch their first campaign step by
step. 102 goes into how to actually
optimize your ads. So, now that you're
driving all this great traffic from
Google Ads, how do you convert those
clicks into profit? And then finally,
103, I go much more into the advanced
things around scaling and how to think
about scaling. So, if you're serious cuz
you clicked on this video because you
want to become a Google Ads expert,
these resources are available for you
and they're free. Our whole thing is
about trying to make ad conversion the
go-to place in the world to master B2B
ads because when I was learning how to
run ads, this just didn't exist. And I
wanted to solve that problem. So, if you
don't believe us, I get it. Check out
our wall of love. You can see all of the
reviews from past students. People have
landed jobs. They started ad agencies.
It's been really incredible to hear the
impact. So, anyways, if you're loving
this content, you'll love our courses.
Go check it out at conversion.com. We've
covered a lot in this video. We're
almost there. Let's go ahead and close
out on talking about how you can
actually get your first campaigns
launched without exploding your budget
in the process. I'm going to walk you
through the campaign builder now. Now
that you have all this context going
into it, and I just want to walk you
through some of the traps to avoid that
people often fall into when they're new
to Google Ads that just unfortunately
cost them budget. And we call it the
dumb tax. like you just choose the wrong
settings cuz you didn't know any better
and now Google, you know, kind of takes
your budget. So, I want to walk you
through what not to do when setting up
your campaigns. And what I've done is
I've actually created a a draft campaign
here. I scoped it out at least using
this paid search planning template. We
give it away in our Google Ads course
for free. So, go check it out. And
basically what I've done is I've scoped
out a non-brand campaign. So, this is my
non-brand campaign using this naming
convention. I've got it all mapped out
here. And essentially what I'm going to
be doing in this campaign is I'm going
to be going after those automated rules.
I think this could be a good valuable
test for us to see how it goes. So
essentially what I've got is I have four
ad groups in this campaign. One is a
general one, LinkedIn, Google Meta. And
then what we're doing is we're going
after automated rules. So we're going to
do, you know, in the general one just
automated rules. In the LinkedIn one,
LinkedIn ads automated rules. Google
Google ads automated rules. And then for
meta, Facebook ads, automated rules. I
could have multiple keywords per ad
group. That's totally fine. Definitely
not going to go too into the nuances of
like how many keywords you should have.
Generally speaking, it just comes down
to your quality score, which you won't
know until post launch. So, just start
with what makes sense. And group your
keywords in your different ad groups
based on relevance. And I'm going to be
using an exact match type for all of
these keywords. So, exact match is the
most specific. It just basically tells
Google, I only want you to show up for
search terms that are closely related to
the the meaning of these keywords. And
Google is getting more and more
semantic. Meaning, the future of Google
Ads, or I should say the present of
Google Ads, is it's less about getting
all of the keyword variations possible
and adding into your campaign because if
you don't, you're going to miss out on
that opportunity. So for example, when I
used to run Google ads six years ago, if
I didn't put like for example, if I if I
put automated rule, I would have to
create another keyword with automated
rules and I'd create the same version
two different words. I'd have to be
super specific because otherwise Google
would just not show up my keyword. And
if I didn't have every variation
possible, it I wouldn't show up. That's
just not the way it works anymore. Now,
it's like Google uses your different
keywords as signals and then it casts
this wide net depending on your match
types. It'll cast different levels of of
distribution in terms of how loose it
gets in terms of matching towards those
keywords. But it doesn't need to be as
specific anymore. So now your keywords
are really just signals that you use to
feed into Google's algorithm for them to
then go try to find the right user. So
with that being said, we're going to use
exact match. For the bid strategy, I
will be focusing on maximize clicks to
start. I'll explain this in a second.
Um, and then tracking template doesn't
really matter for this video. So,
basically why I'm using maximize clicks
is because to begin, if I'm starting
with a brand new account, I have no
conversion history. I don't really have
a trained Google Ads pixel where I can
use a bidding strategy like maximize
conversions or target CPA. So, in the
beginning, if I'm starting with a brand
new account, I'm going to start with
maximize clicks and I'm going to see
what my average cost per click is. And
then from there, I'm going to get my
first 15 to 30 conversions and then
switch over to max conversions or target
CPA bidding. But if you're starting with
a brand new account, I recommend you
start like this first because if you're
too quick to jump into conversionbased
bidding and you don't have history in
your account, Google might artificially
lower or inflate your CPCs too much or
too drastically in order to get you just
will overspend. So, long story short,
I'm going to use this. And if I do have
a lot of conversion history in my
account, then I might just start with
something like max conversions, see what
my average CPA is, and then apply a
target CPA limit on it and then start to
push the CPA down over time to to try to
drive more conversions at a lower cost.
So, let's go ahead and build this out.
Uh, let's come here into the Google Ads
account. Uh, I'm going to assume you
guys are smart enough to understand how
to go to Google Ads and sign up for an
account. So, I'm going to pretend that
that's already done. What we're going to
do is we're going to click create new
campaign. And here in the new campaign
builder, we have to choose our settings.
So the first thing Google's going to say
is it's going to say, "Hey, choose your
goal." And then basically what this is
doing is Google is going to adjust the
parameters that you see in the campaign
creation based on the goal that you
choose. And the reason they're doing
this is they're trying to make it easier
for you. However, they will modify your
available options, which can be
restrictive. So, what I would suggest is
you just click create campaign without a
goals guidance and then you have all the
options available and then you can
choose everything you want in terms of
how you want to build this out. This
doesn't mean if you do this, you're not
going to drive sales or you're not going
to drive leads. It just means you're
going to have all the options to to your
disposal. From here, you can choose your
campaign type. Google has a tremendous
amount of different types of campaigns
you can launch, more than any other
platform. And I would just focus on
search because that's what we're talking
about in this video. But uh if you guys
want more videos on performance max,
demand genen, all these other ones, let
me know in the comments below. Happy to
create follow-up. But we're going to
choose search. And here it's going to
say to use your conversion goals. If you
don't have conversion tracking set up in
your account, definitely make sure you
do do that before launching your
campaigns because without it, you're
going to be flying blind. So that's a
really important thing to do. I believe
I have content on that in the channel
already on how to set up conversion
tracking. And if I don't, I know there's
tons of videos on YouTube, but just make
sure it gets done. Then we're going to
click continue. And we have to give our
campaign a name. So in my case, I
already have it mapped out here. And the
general naming convention that I suggest
and recommend is you go region, theme,
network, language, match type, device.
So for example, in my case, it's NA is
North America. We're bidding on a
non-brand campaign on search. In
English, the match type we're focusing
on is exact, and we're going after all
devices. Uh you can use whatever naming
convention you want, but the the real
checklist item here is that it makes
sense and that other people can
understand what it is if they look at it
inside your account. Especially
important if you're focusing on working
with other people and and everyone needs
to work in harmony. We're going to go
ahead and click continue here. And then
here what it's going to do, it's going
to ask us what is our our bidding
strategy that we want to focus on. So
again, remember I told you I'm going to
focus on max clicks here. So, I'm going
to just quick this switch this over to
clicks. If I wanted to set a max cost
per click bid limit, I could. So, for
example, maybe my estimate on the Google
Ads keyword planner was $35. If I wanted
to be really strict, I would just say
don't go more than $35 and Google can't
go more than 35 on average. However, if
I just want to be flexible right now and
see what the average really is, which is
what I want to do, I'm not going to set
a bit limit to start. And then from
here, I'm just going to go ahead and
skip this because I don't really have
conversion data yet. So, I'm not going
to really get into value based bidding
or anything like that. So, let's just go
ahead and skip this. But if you do have
conversion history, you could leverage
this bidding strategy, but generally
speaking, we don't see a lot of success
with maximize conversion value as of
right now. We used to, and right now,
we're seeing max conversions and target
CPA do better. So, personally wouldn't
use it. And then I'm going to go and
click next. And here's the first trap
that people fall into is they they group
all the networks into the same campaign.
So you can see here we've got Google
search partner networks, Google display
network, all of it is checked by
default. Unfortunately, Google wants you
to spend more money. They'll never tell
you this, but like their business model
is they make more money, more revenue
when you get more clicks on your ads. So
they are incentivized for you to get
more clicks on your ads. Now, does that
become revenue for your business and
profit? That doesn't really matter.
they're still going to make revenue. So,
what we want to do is we want to make
sure that the search campaign is only
showing up on the search network. So,
people searching on Google. So, what
you're going to do is you're going to
uncheck the Google display network. This
is a completely separate beast. It
deserves its own types of ads, its own
strategy, its own everything. So, do not
mix these two things together. It's
going to dramatically inflate the amount
of impressions on your campaigns, and
you're going to have a a much lower CTR
overall. And because you have a lower
CTR, that means your expected
clickthrough rate is going to go down,
which means your quality score is going
to go down, which means you're going to
pay more per click in the process. It's
just not worth it. So, just uncheck
that. The next thing is Google Search
Partners. This one, it really depends on
you. It's not bad to check and it
actually can work really well for some
some accounts. Basically, what this
means is Google is affiliated and they
have a partner network with a lot of
other smaller search engines that are
not as popular as Google. And basically
what Google did is they they brokered
this deal with these smaller search
engines where they said, "Hey, you're
going to agree to let my advertisers
show up on your search engines because I
have the distribution." And this way you
can get a cut of that commission. And
there is a ton of different search
partners in this network. Some examples
are like Ask Jeieves or Duck.Go. These
are smaller search engines, but also
still get a decent amount of traffic
that by enabling search partners, you
can actually show up on them as well. I
would recommend if you're just getting
started to uncheck search partners, just
get Google search to work first and then
once you know Google search is working
for you, use this as like a scaling
strategy to expand your reach now on the
search partners. It's going to give you
more reach and usually a lower cost
because you can help get more
distribution. So, I'm going to uncheck
that for now. And then next, what we're
going to do is we're going to choose our
locations. So, in my case, I'm focusing
on North America, which is United States
and Canada. But here is the trap that
you want to avoid. So, by default,
Google will focus your location options
on presence or interest. What this means
is presence or interest is basically
means like in my case, I want to go
after people that are searching
automated rules in North America. But if
I search presence or interest, this
means I can show for people searching
automated rules in Russia or China or
other parts of the world that are
interested in my keywords but not
physically located in my target
location. I don't want that to be the
case. So in my case, I want this to be
present. I want people in or regularly
in those locations. Regularly in is
really speaking to people who are
traveling in and out like commuters. You
know, they go like maybe they travel
from one county to another for work
every single day. That's what that
means. So, by default, I would recommend
that you focus on presence where I would
say there's an exception is like if
you're in the hotel business, the
airline business, you know, hospitality,
then interest makes a lot of sense
because people might not be physically
located in your area, but they're
researching hotels in your area and you
want to show up, right? That's super
important that you get in front of these
people before they're actually in your
city or your your place of business. So,
for most part, use your discretion, but
that's kind of how to think about it.
Moving on is languages. Generally
speaking, you want to have one language
per campaign. And your ads and your
keywords should mirror said languages.
So, for example, I'm bidding on the
keyword English. My keyword should be in
English. My ad should be in English. My
landing pages should be in English. If I
was bidding on the keyword in Spanish,
it should be the same thing but in that
language, and so on and so forth. So,
this is a scaling strategy. So once
you're proving your keywords are
performing in your primary language and
you can service customers in other
languages. That's a form of scaling. But
first you want to prove it out in your
primary language. Next, EU political
ads. I mean just press no assuming
you're you're not political which most
people probably aren't. So just click
no. Audience segments. You can you can
exclude this. Like just don't worry
about this. But basically, all you need
to know is if you wanted to add in
additional audiences on top of your
campaign and just see how they perform,
you could set observation where you
could just see how those different
audiences are performing. If you wanted
to do, let's say, that search
remarketing strategy I talked to you
about, then you could switch it to
targeting and now they'd have to search
your keywords and be a part of this
audience in order for you to show up.
Generally speaking with Google Ads,
audiences don't work very well because
it's restrictive. Unless you're bidding
on keywords that have tremendous volume,
but if you're like most of our clients
that are operating in the B2B SAS space,
you don't have a lot of flexibility
here. So, as a starting point, you can
just use observation and add them in for
context. But now with automated bidding
strategies like max conversions and
things like this, this has become less
important over time. So, I'm going to go
and ignore that. Uh, moving on is we
have more settings. So, by default, you
have optimize, prefer, best performing
ads. I recommend you just keep that on.
Uh, start and end dates you can keep on.
This one's super important. Ad schedule.
So, if you're dealing with a smaller
budget, I would personally recommend
setting up an ad schedule. This is going
to allow you to stretch and consolidate
your budget even further. Uh personally
I actually like to set up ad schedules
using our tool Sammy because in Sammy
we're integrated with Slack and we can
get notified in Slack uh every time our
schedule takes place or our different
rules fire properly. But you can also
set up a basic ad schedule on Google Ads
where you're just doing for example
Monday through Fridays. You could even
get more specific. So if you do need to
control your budget and consolidate it
more, instead of showing seven days a
week, maybe focus on only going 5 days a
week. And in addition to that, instead
of going, you know, 24 hours a day,
maybe even consider going, you know, 8
hours a day from 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
as an example. So, I'm just going to
leave it Monday to Fridays for now. And
that's essentially it. We're going to go
ahead and click next. This we're going
to skip for the sake of this video, but
this is basically a tracking template.
Doesn't really matter right now. We're
going to go and click next. And here is
your next big trap. A max for search
campaigns. So, there is a time and place
for using these types of things, but
when you're just getting started and you
have no confidence in Google Ads, don't
just let Google run your budget. So,
just go ahead and click next. I
recommend that you do not opt into this
and you skip this because you're
basically giving Google full control.
And here is where we're going to add in
our ad groups and set up our keywords.
So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to
just go ahead and reference my structure
that I created here. So, for my first ad
group, it's called general. So, we're
going to go ahead and rename this to
general. I'm going to add in my
keywords. So, I've got one keyword here.
It's a very simple campaign. And this is
really important. This is where we set
our match types. You set match types
based on how you add your keywords in
here. So, you can see here Google is
telling you how this works. So, if I
were to just put the keyword like this,
it's broad match, which is the most
broad of all the match types. This
basically means Google show up for
anything you think is similar or
remotely relevant to automated rules. So
you're going to show up for all kinds of
junk. The next one is phrase match. This
is a little bit more control. This is
where you're saying Google show up for
more things, but try not to get too
crazy in terms of what I'm actually
trying to show up for. And then finally,
you have exact match, which is where
you're saying Google only show up for
things that mean this. and Google will
show up for for different things. But I
would say over time and every Google
advertiser will tell you this, max types
are becoming more and more loose. So
eventually I wouldn't be surprised like
in 3 years if it's just broad match. So
yeah, anyways, I'm going to just use
exact match and that's what I'd be
recommending for you as well if you're
just getting started. If you can't get
conversions with exact match phrase and
broad, it's probably not going to work
out. So, from here, what we're going to
do is we're going to come here, and you
can see add group settings for AIAX.
We're going to just go ahead and ex uh
ignore this because we want to turn that
off. We don't want to use AIAX right
now. And here is where we're going to
create our actual ad. So, I'm going to
go ahead and grab my domain. Really
important that you are using optimized
landing pages. I'm just using my domain
for the the sake of demonstration, but
landing pages really make a big
difference in terms of conversion rates.
There's also a quality score aspect,
which is how relevant your ads are, but
conversion rates are the main thing you
should care about in the beginning. And
here, what we're going to do is we're
going to add in our headlines. We're
going to add in our descriptions, you
know, add in business names, site links.
These are ad extensions. This basically
just gives additional information on how
your business works. So you can drive
people to different pages. Highly
recommend in using at least four site
links, call out extensions. Try to use
as many of these different extensions as
you can that are relevant for your
business. It's going to help take up
more space in the search results page,
make your ad bigger, and help improve
your clickthrough rate. So basically,
all you would have to do now is just
write your ads and and then you can go
ahead and launch your campaign. I'm
going to not create all of my ad groups
just because this video is dramatically
long already. So, one thing I'll just
close off with is I'll link in the
description box down below, but we have
a pretty great article on ad conversions
blog. So, if you come to our blog and
you filter by Google ads, we have this
article that I wrote about responsive
search ads that I think is really
helpful. You know, we actually filmed a
whole video on this as well on
responsive search ads as well if you
want to check that out. But the
basically the thing I will mention is
you really want to follow this
framework. So the first headline should
match intent. The second one should
differentiate between the other results
and then your third headline just
provides a clear call to action. Google
is always optimizing with how they show
your ad on the search results page. Uh
so now what they're actually doing is
sometimes they won't even show your
second headline or your third headline.
They'll just show the first headline and
that's it. So that's why it's really
important that it matches intent because
I mean this is what the search results
page looks like, right? you search
something and then you see things that
just completely don't make sense in
terms of search intent in relation to
the keyword. So the way you avoid that
is by following that framework. Headline
one matches intent, headline two
provides differentiation, headline three
is then a CTA. So for instance, the way
you would guarantee those different
headlines show in that order is you
could pin it with this little option
here. So now I could pin to position
one, two, three, and so on and so forth.
Uh, one thing I will close on as well on
this is Google has this thing called ad
strength. I would completely ignore
this. Ad strength has no bearing on your
actual success of your ads. This is just
Google's score trying to push their
recommendations on what they believe
will work best for your account. And
again, like Google's best interest isn't
your best interest. So keep that in
mind. And one thing is the way your ad
because this always gets mixed up. I've
actually had discussions with Google ad
reps about this. It's like ad strength
is not part of your ad rank. Those are
two completely different things. Your ad
rank is what determines if you're on the
top of the page or nowhere to be seen.
Your ad strength is just Google's
recommendations. And like anyone that's
running Google ads, drop in the comments
below. Like you can verify this. Ads
with low strength can have better CPAs
versus ads with a high strength. It has
no bearing. So the reason I'm saying
that is like don't stress this. like
just follow those best practices and
then through over time you can modify
depending on your performance. And last
but not least is going to be your
budget. So this is really just where
you're going to want to set your average
daily budget or if you're running a full
fixed budget for this campaign, you can
do a total budget with the start and end
date. And that's pretty much it. You
would launch this campaign and now you'd
wait for it to spend and you get some
data and then you start to optimize.
Hope this video was valuable. Be sure to
give this video a thumbs up. It really
helps us grow our reach as a small
channel. and subscribe so you can be
notified of future videos. When you're
ready, check us out at adconversion.com
and join our community of 9,000 plus B2B
marketers mastering ads with our free
courses. Thanks so much. See you in the
next one.